 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Minutes ›› March 13th 2013 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        Department of Computer Science 
 
        STAFF STUDENT CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE      
 
        Wednesday 13th March 2013
 1.20 Malet Place Engineering Building 
 
        M I N U T E S 
 
        STAFF PRESENT: 
 
        Dr Graham Roberts (Departmental Tutor, DEOLO, Director of Studies, Chair), Dr Kevin Bryson (1st Year Co-ordinator, Programme Director, MSc Computer Science and MSc Financial Computing), Nicola Alexander (Departmental Administrator, Academic Policy and Operations), Jill Saunders (Departmental Administration Manager) 
 
        STUDENT ACADEMIC REPRESENTATIVES PRESENT: 
 
        Michael Boon (2nd Year UG Rep), Markus Padourek (2nd Year UG Rep), Shahriar Tajbakhsh (3rd Year UG Rep), Apostolos (Akis) Angelis (CS & FC Rep), William Grimes (CS & FC Rep), Jennifer Nguyen (CSML Rep), Sobhan Yassipour Tehrani (SSE Rep), Irina Mnohoghitnei (FSE Rep), Petar Ivanov (ML Rep), Suketu Mehta (Info Sec Rep), Donghan Chen (FRM Rep) 
 
        IN ATTENDANCE: 
 
        Sarah Clegg, Undergraduate Administrator (Secretary)

        	 
            	 
                 
                 Key to abbreviations
 
                 DTC      Departmental Teaching Committee
 
                 SSCC   Staff Student Consultative Committee
 
                 DEOLO  Departmental Equal Opportunities Liaison Officer
 
                 TSG        Technical Support Group
 
                
 

  

 
        1        APOLOGIES FOR ABSENCE   
 
        The Chair welcomed the committee and noted apologies for absence from William Hines (3rd year UG Rep), Neil Daeche, (Head of Internal Infrastructure), JJ Giwa (Departmental Administrator, Facilities Management & Operations, DEOLO) 
 
        2        NOTIFICATION OF ANY OTHER BUSINESS                                             
 
                  No other business was raised. 
 
        3        APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF THE LAST MEETING ON 28th November 2012 
 
        Two of the student reps who attended the last meeting signed that they were accurate, as did the Chair.  
 
        4        MATTERS ARISING FROM THE MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS MEETING: 
 
        4.1     Lab Door Lock Combinations 
 
        It was noted that the codes on the doors to the interconnected 1st floor labs were still different. Denis Timm was looking at making them the same. 
 
        4.2     Status of Windows 8 Support in Labs 
 
        It was noted that Windows 8 was now available in the Fourth Floor Lab.  TSG were looking at rolling it out as the default on all other machines, but this would most likely not be implemented until the next academic year. 
 
        4.3     Grades v Numerical Marks for Coursework 
 
        The Chair reported that this item had been taken to the DTC, but there had been no consensus as to whether grades or numerical grades were preferable.  It was noted that the historic reason for the use of grades was that numerical marks were not verified until they had been through the Examination Board at the end of the year.  
 
        
 The Chair reported that UCL as a whole was looking at introducing the Grade Point Average (GPA) system.  As part of this process, coursework grades would be looked at and defined.  
 
        Reps reported that the translation of grades to numbers was not consistent and varied by lecturer.  Further, the 30 mark range for the A grade (>70%) could have a significant impact on the final score. Coursework was one of the main sources of feedback to students, but it could be meaningless in some cases. 
 
        ACTION: The DTC should clarify grade boundaries and standard marking guidelines. 
 
        4.4     UCL Quick Wins Project 
 
        It was noted that progress was being made with the fourth and sixth floor lift lobby refurbishments. 
 
        The refurbishment of 1.21 was imminent and the whiteboard had already been replaced.  
 
        4.5    Annual Monitoring Data Link 
 
        The Annual Monitoring Report had been circulated to all students for the academic year 2011-12. 
 
        It was noted that every module had a report which included details of exam results and external examiners’ comments. 
 
        ACTION: Reps were invited to email any comments to Nicola Alexander.  
 
        4.6    Infosec Careers Opportunities 
 
        It was noted that Dr David Clark had not yet reported back on this matter.  It was reported that it would be possible to work with BT as part of the thesis. However no other careers opportunities had come to light. 
 
        Agenda Items 
 
         5.      National Student Survey (Nicola Alexander) 
 
        NA reminded Reps of the importance of completing the National Student Survey (NSS) and encouraged them to remind their peers to complete the survey.  A completion rate of 50% was required in order for results to be published and CS had a 30% rate at that time.  Awareness of the NSS amongst students seemed to be poor. It was reported that in previous years when supervisors has asked students to complete the survey, the response had been good.  NA would ask supervisors to do the same this year. 
 
        6.       Teaching Matters 
 
        6.1     Grading and Exam Feedback (Markus Padourek) 
 
        Markus Padourek requested that the exam/coursework mark be shown on provisional results letters. 
 
        It was noted that this had been looked at previously and a solution had not been found yet, due to the unwieldy nature of the data exported from Portico. 
 
        The committee acknowledged that students wanted more feedback on their performance in examinations, such as access to model answers. It was noted that UCL Policy did not allow model answers to be published. However students were reminded that they could request to see their examination scripts by contacting their programme administrators. 
 
        Reps reported cases of coursework which had been remarked at the request of students, who had noticed discrepancies with the marking.  There was, they stated, a need for greater transparency of marking. 
 
        The Chair assured reps that there was confidence in the accuracy of marks and this should not be the driver behind the request for feedback. 
 
        It was suggested that since module reports contained the breakdown of coursework and feedback marks, anonymised versions could be released to students, perhaps via a secure area online. Reps requested that statistical information on module results, such as the class mean and standard deviation, be provided to students, as this would provide a better indication as to their performance. 
 
        ACTION: The matter would be referred to the DTC.  
 
        6.2     Return of Coursework (Michael Boon) 
 
        Reps reported the ongoing matter of coursework not being returned to students in a timely manner.  Some coursework had still not been returned from first term modules.  Reps were asked to notify the Chair and Sarah Clegg if there were any issues with coursework not being returned within the designated timescale (4 weeks according to UCL policy).  
 
        Some further issues regarding coursework were noted, as follows: 
 
                           i.        Some coursework from Term 1 Modules was due well into the second term.  Students were advised to raise this with their programme directors, where this was a problem. 
 
                          ii.        Some pieces of coursework required a significant amount of work over a prolonged period, where they might only be worth 5 % of an overall module.  The Chair advised Reps that the maximum load for coursework was detailed in the module specification. However students were reminded that an element of coursework was formative, i.e. non-assessed with the purpose of learning something or developing a skill. 
 
                         iii.        Students should flag any issues with modules via module feedback forms.  Nicola Alexander would see whether it was possible to re-open and re-circulate forms for modules which had incidents after the teaching for it and come to an end. 
 
        ACTION: NA to reopen feedback forms for the relevant term 1 modules. 
 
        6.3     Second Year Option Modules (Michael Boon) 
 
        Michael Boon made a request for more Computer Science Optional Modules to be made available to second year students, as the only options were Entrepreneurship and Financial Computing. Students were reminded that it was possible to take third year modules, as long as the module lecturer gave approval. It was noted that when students had taken third year options in their second year, they were marked as ‘intermediate’ level on transcripts, even though they were ‘advanced’ level. 
 
        ACTION: Sarah Clegg would enquire with the Exams Office whether this could be changed.  
 
        6.4     Module Feedback Questionnaires (Nicola Alexander) 
 
        Nicola Alexander reminded reps that the feedback questionnaires would be circulated in the last week of term and all students were encouraged to complete them and provide valuable feedback. 
 
        6.5     Departmental Annual Monitoring Report (Graham Roberts) 
 
        The Committee noted the Departmental Annual Monitoring Report. Reps were advised to send any feedback on the report to Sarah Clegg. 
 
        6.6     Issues raised by MScCS/FC Reps (Akis Angelis) 
 
        The majority of the issues raised by the MScCS/FC Reps would be looked at outside the meeting.  However the following points were noted: 
 
                           i.        Akis Angelis reported that not all students were aware of the facilities available in the Department and suggested that more demos could be given during Induction week. 
 
                          ii.        Akis also queried the filestore quota limit. 
 
        
 ACTION: GAR would ask TSG what the limitations were. 
 
        7.       Facilities 
 
        7.1     Monitors in Lab 1.05 (Markus Padourek) 
 
        Markus Padourek reported that old monitors had still not been removed from 1.05. It was noted that they needed to be disposed of in an environmentally sensitive way, therefore it did take longer to remove that anticipated. 
 
        Additionally, Markus requested that it would be useful for HDMI cables to be provided in 1.05, so that students could plug their laptops into the monitors. 
 
        ACTION: GAR/SC would ask TSG to remove monitors and provide cables 
 
        7.2   Lockers for CS Students (Michael Boon)                   
 
        Michael Boon reiterated the request for lockers to be made available for students. However this had been discussed in detail at the previous meeting; the space for them was simply not available. Furthermore lockers in corridors would present a health and safety issue as ample space was required for people such as wheelchair users to pass along the corridor.  
 
        7.4   Power Sockets in the First Floor Labs (Michael Boon) 
 
        Reps made a request for more power sockets/extension cables to be made available in 1.05 - students would like more power sockets/extension cables predominately for powering laptops. It was noted that plenty of sockets were available in the fourth floor lab and students would like a similar number on the first floor. 
 
        8.    Any Other Business 
 
        No other business was raised. 
 
        10.     THE NEXT MEETING IS DUE TO BE HELD IN NOVEMBER 2013. 
 
        Sarah Clegg                                                                
 
        Undergraduate Administrator 
 
        Department of Computer Science 
 
        [020 7679 3690, UCL extension 33690, email: s.clegg@ucl.ac.uk ] 
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
