 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Minutes ›› March 12th 2003 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        University College London

        Computer Science Department

        Minutes of the SSCC meeting held on 12thMarch 2003 in the Chadwick 216 at 1.00pm
Present:

        Name Yr&Course

        Jill Saunders Dept. Manager

        Sarah Berke ( Secretary) Dept. Manager

        Graham Roberts Staff representative

        March Delacour 4th Year Rep

        Melissa Ho MSc DCNDS

        Martin Sewell PhD

        Greg Paperim 3rd yr Rep

        Sam Cheung MSc IT Rep

        Chris Clark Staff representative

        John Dowell Staff representative

        Minati Das 2nd yr Rep

        Simon Arridge Staff representative

        Barry Stein Staff representative

        Janet McDonnell Staff representative

        Robin Hirsch Staff representative

        Keri McCrensky MSc CS Rep

        Nathan Lea MSc CS Rep

        Simon Yu (Chair) 3rd Year

        Yogen Mauree CS/EE (2nd year)

        Andrew Cheung 3Rd Year
<dir>
        1. Apologies for absence.
</dir>
        There were no apologies for absence
<dir>
        2. Notification of any other business
</dir>
        The only item of other business was from Robin Hirsch relating to a request from the student union to have teach-ins as a protest should war against Iraq go ahead
<dir>
        3. Approval of minutes of the meeting of 29th January 2003.
</dir>
        The minutes of the meeting on 29th January were approved
<dir>
        4. Matters arising.
</dir>
        There were no matters arising
<dir>
        5. Announcements
</dir>
        5.1 Restructuring of the undergraduate programme

        Anthony Finkelstein spoke on the new proposals to restructure the undergraduate programme. There was a meeting scheduled for 19th March to discuss the proposals with the whole student body.

        In the meantime he was keen to give student reps the opportunity to make comments and ask questions.

        ACWF said there had been a long process leading to the announcement of the changes. He had been keen to engage and involve all groups in the process through Teaching Committee. He believed the changes would benefit students and the department. He emphasized to the students that although the procedures had been well developed to the extent they had been submitted to the college absolutely nothing was written in tablets of stone. He was keen to make the student experience a better one.

        Greg Paperin representing the third year students welcomed the extended range of options proposed, but was concerned about the timetabling of the exams prior to Easter and the reduction in the amount of revision time.

        ACWF emphasized there was no ideal model. The model now proposed had been proven in the advanced masters courses. It allowed a more concentrated effort at the projects. Currently he believed the projects suffered because of the overlap with exam preparation.

        It was agreed to further pursue discussion at the meeting on the 19th and then if necessary have a meeting with the current 3rd yr MSci students.

        6. Student Feedback

        Jill Saunders Saunders reported the low response rate on the student feedback questionnaire. It was less than ten percent. The questionnaires wee currently in a web based format.

        Melissa Ho believed more students would complete the questionnaires if they were paper based. Although feedback might be important for the department it was not so important to the students.

        Nathan Lee (MScCS) Felt that the request to students to complete the forms should be more assertive

        Action: JFS to as MF to pro-actively pursue and encourage students to complete forms

        7. New arrangements for Teaching Committee

        JFS tabled a paper showing the revised Teaching Committee structure. As from April, there would be an undergraduate teaching committee and a postgraduate teaching committee

        8. DCNDS Print Quota

        Melissa Ho complained the print quota was 100 pages. Barry Stein pointed out it was 100 pages in terms 1 and 2 and 250 pages in term 3. I.e. a total of 450 pages. Further print quota could be purchased.

        9. Graduation

        Although staff present sympathized with the students, especially the overseas ones, it was pointed out this was an University of London issue. It was felt that the department could help by arranging a more formal occasion to run alongside the traditional end of course parties.

        John Dowell said that he would convey to the registry the views of the students’ representative at the meeting.

        Action: John Dowell and Programme Leaders
10. Teaching Support

        Michelle Ho raised the issue of teaching support. She has had undergraduate students looking to her for Java help. She understood there were special lab sessioning for the MscCs/IT students but what about other courses including DCNDS. Steve Hailes said the department was looking at this issue

        11. Graduation Ceremonies

        JFS had spoken to the registry to ascertain why the dates were not known and why students had to pay. The registry had informed her that before dates could be set the registry needed to know numbers. The charging for students was new this year. Previously only guests had been charged. The graduation ceremonies team had pointed out that the hire of the hall, printing of the programme and reception were all costly item that needed to be recouped.

        12. Plagiarism procedures

        The way plagiarism cases had been dealt with were raised by some 3rd year students. There was a general feeling that the way they had been contacted about the plagiarism was harsh and impersonal. John Dowell pointed out to the meeting that last year the CS department had more cases of plagiarism then the rest of the college put together.

        This year the department had institute fast track procedures to deal with first and minor offences which resulted in a 0 mark and a formal reprimand - they would not be reported to college unless it was a second occurrence or a major offence.

        A number of appeals against these judgments had been held, the vast majority of which were spurious

        13. Courseworks

        The third year reps complained about the number of assignments left for them to complete before the end of term. Some of these courseworks should have been set before reading week and had not yet been set. This was the case of Bernard Buxton’s coursework for 3C16.

        Robin Hirsch informed the meeting he had spoken to Bernard himself as he was also culpable. He recognised that a general message needed to be sent to Yr 3 lecturers. He understood the need to keep the holidays clear for revision.

        Action: Robin Hirsch

        14. 3CC04 Complexity

        RH had spoken to MH about this. A hard coursework had been set, but students needed to “sweat” on this course to understand it.

        MH would be working on model answers and exam preparation in the next couple of weeks.

        RH stated it was possible to make the course easier, but that we did not want to “dumb down” our courses.

        Greg Paperim (3rd yr rep) stated it was not a case of making the course easier, but there should be more problem solving in class.

        Marc Delacour (4th yr rep) said when they did the course it had been taught by Sean Holden and similar problems had arisen. MH was using Sean Hoblen’s notes hence the persistence of the problems

        15. Exam Regulations

        There was a college policy of no summer resits.

        September referrals had been available about 5 years ago but the failure rate was high and often papers were set and students failed to turn up.

        The higher failure was with 1B11 whereby if students failed they were forced to take the year out.

        New procedures in year 1 with the splitting of the course into two district pars should mean that fewer 1st year students are in the situation of having to take a year out.

        16. Technology Management Course

        Greg Paperim representing the 3rd year questioned why the 3C16 Technology Management course was required. It was explained that it was a requirement of the IEE/BCS accreditation that we offer such a course.

        Steve Hailes told the reps that if there was a problem with the content as the means of delivery they should contact him.

        Action: Student Reps

        17. A.O.B

        17.1 Student Union Request

        Robin Hirsch told the meeting that in the event of war, as a protest the S.U was encouraging lecturers to change their lecture to incorporate a talk on war. He was proposing to do a talk on Computer Science and war. All regularly scheduled lectures would be rescheduled.

        18. Date of Next Meeting

        Term 1 in academic year 2003/4 date to be announced.
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
