 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Minutes ›› March 25th 2014 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        STAFF STUDENT CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE      
 
        Tuesday 25th March 2014
 1.04 Malet Place Engineering Building 
 
        M I N U T E S 
 
        STAFF PRESENT: 
 
        Dr Graham Roberts (Departmental Tutor, DEOLO, Director of Studies, Chair), Dr Kevin Bryson (1st Year Co-ordinator, Programme Director, MSc Computer Science), Nicola Alexander (Teaching and Learning Manager), Dean Mohamedally (Senior Teaching Fellow), Antoaneta Serguieva (Senior Teaching Fellow, MSc Financial Computing Admissions Tutor). 
 
        STUDENT ACADEMIC REPRESENTATIVES PRESENT: 
 
        Alexander Gamble (1st Year UG Rep), Rohan Kopparapu (1st Year UG Rep), Necati Munir (2nd Year UG Rep), Manoj Vaseekharan (2nd Year UG Rep) Michael Boon (3rd Year UG Rep), Richard Everett (4th Year UG Rep), Stefan Alborzpour, (CS Rep), David Lonsdale (FC Rep), Arbias Hashani (CSML Rep), Xujia Zhang, (FRM Rep), Seng Jea Lee (NCS Rep), Heidy Khlaaf (Year 1 PhD Rep), Manal Adham (Year 1 PhD Rep). 
 
        IN ATTENDANCE: 
 
        Victoria West, Undergraduate Administrator (Secretary) 
 
        	 
            	 
                 
                 Key to abbreviations
 
                 DTC      Departmental Teaching Committee
 
                 SSCC   Staff Student Consultative Committee
 
                 DEOLO  Departmental Equal Opportunities Liaison Officer
 
                 TSG        Technical Support Group
 
                  
 
                
 

  

 
        1        APOLOGIES FOR ABSENCE   
 
        The Chair welcomed the committee and noted apologies for absence from Jill Saunders (Departmental Administration Manager), JJ Giwa (Facilities and Operations Manager) and Juan Zhou (Year 1 PhD Rep). 
 
        2        NOTIFICATION OF ANY OTHER BUSINESS                                             
 
        The Student Reps raised the examination timetable to be discussed under AOB. 
 
        3        APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF THE LAST MEETING ON 20th November 2013. 
 
        The minutes were approved as an accurate record of the meeting.  
 
        4        MATTERS ARISING FROM THE MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS MEETING: 
 
        4.1     Student run helpdesk (Graham Roberts) 
 
        The Chair reported that the department intends to enhance the roles of Teaching Assistants (TAs), to improve their effectiveness.  In addition, a new role of Student Mentor will be introduced, where students on taught programs (undergraduate and MSc) will run a helpdesk in one of the labs and be able to give quick responses to student queries. This will be a paid position of probably 2 hours per day for a small group of mentors.  There will be a recruitment and training process for all TA and mentoring posts.  Also the department will be a recruiting a Teaching Labs Manager. This role will organize and run the teaching labs. 
 
        4.2     Drinking water in the lift lobby area (JJ Giwa) 
 
        
 
        The Chair reported that Estates is still investigating the possibility of having water coolers in the lift lobby areas.  JJ Giwa has been chasing Estates for a solution.   The main issue is that the building’s plumbing is not in the correct area to have the machines plumbed in.  In addition there are health and safety and maintenance concerns.   
 
        It was agreed that this item would continue to be an item on the agenda. 
 
        4.3     Discussion about MSc CS/FC option module pre-requisites (Kevin Bryson) 
 
        Kevin Bryson reported he had met with the student reps after the last meeting.  It was agreed that the artificial intelligence module would not be considered as a standard option due to the pre-requisites. It had transpired that no students had taken the artificial intelligence module as an option.  
 
        4.4     Space and facilities in any potential new CS building (Graham Roberts)
 The Chair reported that proposed new Computer Science building may be available by the end of 2015. The Provost is aware of the department’s issues with space.  
 
        The Chair again invited comments from students on the facilities they would like, including ideas on lay out, access, teaching and social spaces – this was a great opportunity to secure an inspiring new space. 
 
        
 ACTION: Students to send ideas to JJ Giwa, Graham Roberts and Jill Saunders. 
 
        Agenda Items 
 
        5.      Teaching Matters 
 
        5.1     Resubmission on moodle (Michael Boon) 
 
        Michael Boon reported that on some modules it is not possible to replace a piece of coursework on Moodle with an updated version before the submission deadline.  It appeared currently to be the preference of the individual tutor when setting up Moodle.  The Chair advised that this may have been caused by a change in the default settings and that not all tutors were aware that the settings needed to be changed to allow students numerous submissions up to the deadline.   It was agreed that this would be added to the Teaching Committee agenda. 
 
        Manoj Vaseekharan reported that a receipt was not always given when submitting a piece of coursework in Moodle.  The Chair advised this was due to the part of Moodle used for coursework submission and it could not be amended. 
 
        5.2    Late return of marked coursework (Manoj Vaseekharan / Necati Munir) 
 
        Manoj Vaseekharan reported that in certain instances students were receiving coursework feedback up to 6 weeks after submission.  The Chair acknowledged that this was an issue in the department and UCL and had been discussed at the last Teaching Committee meeting.  The department is aiming to enforce the 4 week turnaround on coursework.  To support this it was suggested that the Student Reps could report back on coursework not meeting this deadline.  This information would then be passed to the Head of Department to speak with the relevant tutor. 
 
        Student reps suggested that coursework could be returned in the revision sessions or a final deadline was set each academic year by which all coursework must be returned to students.  This deadline would be problematic given that some coursework is not due until late in term 2. 
 
        The issue is a top priority for UCL. 
 
        5.3    Removal of COMP1001 Computer Architecture as core module (Manoj Vaseekharan / Necati  Munir) 
 
        Manoj Vaseekharan reported that the Computer Architecture module was very good and students were disappointed and concerned that it would not be offered in future to 1st year students with the move to the IEP. 
 
        The Chair advised that the decision had been made and could not be changed.  Someof the material from the module would remain and be available to students in other forms.  The workload on the IEP should be the same as for current 1st year students. 
 
        5.4    Access to past masters projects for MEng students (Richard Everett) 
 
        Richard Everett reported that he had been unable to access past masters projects and had been informed in the administration office that they were not available to MEng students.  The Chair advised that this was not the case and Victoria had given 2012/13 projects to the department office for students to access. 
 
        5.5    Email communication with MSc FC students (David Lonsdale) 
 
        David Lonsdale reported that a small number of students were not receiving emails and suggested this maybe a list management issue.  Antoaneta Serguieva advised that she sent emails to students via moodle for the relevant module and also using the email lists.  The Chair commented that it could be an email client issue and suggested any students experiencing difficulties should access their emails through the web interface.  
 
        5.6    Coursework deadlines (David Lonsdale) 
 
        David Lonsdale reported that on the MScCS/FC Operating Systems module there had been a delay in coursework being set and when the tutor was asked about it, the students were advised to wait and it would be set.  In the end the coursework was cancelled and the students are concerned about the impact on learning and testing of their knowledge before the examinations.  Kevin Bryson advised that he was aware of the situation and had agreed with the module lecturer to cancel the coursework and update the weighting of the examination.                                                                                                      
 
        5.7    Ranking of MSc FC students (David Lonsdale) 
 
        David Lonsdale reported that the students were concerned that an email had been circulated to them with an attached excel spreadsheet that had ranked each student on the programme. Antoaneta Serguieva explained that the email had been forwarded to the students in error with the Excel spreadsheet still attached.  Antoaneta had explained the situation to any students who had   contacted her directly and agreed to send an email to all students on the programme explaining what had happened. 
 
        Action: Antoaneta Serguieva to email students on the MSc FC programme. 
 
        5.8    Dissatisfaction with compulsory MSc FC modules (David Lonsdale) 
 
        David Lonsdale reported that there appears to be general dissatisfaction with the compulsory FC modules.  The structure of the lectures was not providing an introduction to those students who did not have a financial background and as a result they were finding it overwhelming. 
 
        Action: Antoaneta Serguieva and David Lonsdale to discuss after the meeting. 
 
        5.9    National Student Survey (NSS) (Nicola Alexander) 
 
        Nicola Alexander reported that the response rate to the NSS survey has passed the minimum needed but more responses were wanted.  An incentive was being provided as encouragement to respond to the survey and increase the response rate.  Richard Everett asked if it was possible to know the students who had not yet responded.  Nicola advised that this information was not available as she could only see the percent of responses by programme. 
 
        6.       Facilities 
 
        6.1    Lifting of the food ban in the labs (Manoj Vaseekhara/Necati Munir/Richard Everett) 
 
        The Chair reported that the food ban had been put back in place due to a number of complaints, one of which had escalated.  The labs had become shabby with rubbish being left around, bins overflowing and it becoming common place to eat hot and smelly food in the labs.  
 
        The Student Reps asked for the ban to be lifted as it had been brought in without any warning and for the ban to apply to hot food.   The Chair responded that the threshold had been reached with regards to food in the labs and as a result the ban would stay in place. 
 
        7.    Any Other Business 
 
        The Chair reported that a draft examination timetable had been circulated by the examinations office to the departments and it is expected that the examination timetable will be released to students by Friday 28th March 2014 
 
        8.       THE NEXT MEETING IS DUE TO BE HELD IN NOVEMBER 2014. 
 
        Victoria West                                                   
 
        Undergraduate Administrator 
 
        Department of Computer Science 
 
        [020 7679 3690, UCL extension 33690, email: v.west@ucl.ac.uk ]  
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
