 
   
    
    
    
      Department of Computer Science 
    
 
     
       
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
      
      
    
 
     
     › Home
      ›› Current Students
      ›› Student Information
      ›› Staff-Student Committee
      ›› Minutes ›› November 13th 2002 
    
 
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      
      
       
       
       
        
        
        
         Mobile Version

        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       	Home
	Prospective Students
	Research
	Industry & Outreach
	Careers
	Current Students
	People
	About Us
	Women in Computer Science
	Staff Intranet

 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
        
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        Forthcoming Events

       
 
        
        
        
         
         	 New events will be posted here as soon as details become known. 


        
 
       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
         

        

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        

        
         
          
           
            
           

          
 
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
       
        
       
        
         
          
           
            
           

          

         
 
         
          
           
            
           

          

         

        

       
 
        
      
 
       
       
     
 
      
      
      
       
        
        
         
        University College London
 
        Department of Computer Science
 
        Staff-Student Consultative Committee
 
        Minutes of the meeting held on 13th November 2002
 
        Student Representative Present: Mark Delacour, Yogen Mauree, Sunil Sharda, Minita Das, Andy Chung, Sam Cheung, Kerry McCrensky, Nathan Lea, Henry van der Beck, John Tang, Darren Liddle, Peter Sinden, Melissa Ho. 
 
        Staff Representatives Present: Robin Hirsch (Departmental Undergraduate Tutor), 
 
        Julie Burke (Undergraduate Administrator), Jill Saunders, Sarah Berke (Departmental Administrators),Stephen Hailes (Programme Director, MSc DCNDS), John Washbrook (Director of Studies), Steve Wilbur (Head of Department), JJ Giwa (Departmental Officer), Barry Stein (Technical Support Group), Bernard Buxton (Programme Director, Mres CVIPGS), Peter Rounce, Graham Roberts, Soren Sorensen, Simon Arridge
 
         
 
        1.      Apologies for Absence
 
        None
 
        2.      Notification of any other business
 
        Retaking exams – Should students have to wait a whole year to re-sit exams.  Robin said that it would be best to wait until February so it can be put on the Agenda and discussed properly.
 
        3.      Approval of the meeting of 27th February 2002
 
        Minutes approved
 
        4.      Matters arising
 
        Students would rather have 3 meetings rather than 2.  Mark Delacour feels this is important, as issues often get lost.  The option of an ‘Emergency meeting’ could be a possibility, which would only take place if issues needed to be discussed.  It was then agreed that there should be a vote.  To have 3 fixed meetings per year won over having Emergency meetings.
 
        5.      Changes to representation on the committee
 
        No one came forward for to be the Computer Science with Cognitive Science representative.  It can be taken off the list of reps as this degree programme is due to discontinue.  The Msc IT is also due to finish next year.
 
        The list of student representatives was agreed.
 
        6.      Late Access to labs. (P Sinden)
 
        Peter Sinden asked if the MSc IS could have additional access to the labs.
 
        Sarah Berke explained that the Labs are open for students on the MRes until 9pm as they are doing a Research Masters.  The department has to pay designated people and they have to be trained as first aiders.
 
        Peter suggested that the cost could be incurred by the student.
 
        Barry Stein said that this issue comes up every year.  Students can have access through ISD, these facilities are open at the weekend and they have Matlab and Mathmatica.  Students can log into CS systems from there.  If anyone has any problems they should report them to request@cs.ucl.ac.uk. Weekends are not an option.
 
        SAB will see what she can do.  
 
        Suggestions were made by students that they could hold events to fund late opening or charge people a small fee.
 
        Mark Delecour asked if any provision will be made in the new building.  There will be 40-50 places in the new building.
 
        Kerry McCrensky stressed that students were willing to pay.  SAB emphasized that people need to be first aiders and it is difficult to find designated people.
 
        Robin said that this issue has been tried many times before.  Students should be able to log in through ISD.
 
        7.      Food in Labs (R. Hirsch)
 
        Food is not allowed in the labs – Robin stressed that it is difficult for students to tell other students not to eat. 
 
        Barry said that he is finding more people ignoring the closing time.  Propping doors open in labs is not allowed as they are closed for security reasons.  
 
        8.      Terms of Reference for departmental Teaching Committee.  Student reps should
 
        see a copy of the agenda for the TC and if there is an item of particular interest, you may ask the chair of the TC for permission to attend.  If the agenda contains business that should not be discussed in the presence of student members, there should be a separate, Reserved Areas of Business section for room 208 (Jill Sanders)
 
        The agenda will be on the web.   If students are interested in attending TCM they need to inform Robin one week before.
 
        9.      Request for a replacement printer in Room 208.
 
        The printer was obsolete years ago.  It was left in Room 208 under the condition that it would no longer be maintained.  Students should use the 1st floor printer or ground floor copier of PDF files.  If there is a problem email request@cs.ucl.ac.uk
 
        10.  Items for sale.  Bulletin board for those interested in buying and selling personal 
 
        items.
 
        Do not enter into commercial ventures without the permission of the Head of Department.  Robin has received a complaint.  If students continue to sell personal possessions there computer accounts will be suspended.  Barry Stein will set up a bulletin board to buy and sell.
 
        11.  Improved facilities for CS Computer Common Room (S Sharda)
 
        S Sharda asked if a Vending Machine could be fitted in the common room.  Sarah said a coffee machine was only fitted last year.  There have been problems with mice in the past so no food machines are allowed in the Common Room.
 
        Could the students have a network connection?  2 network connections will be put in the common room.  There are already network connections in the labs.
 
        12.  Request for “Open Options” for CS with EE students (Y Mauree)
 
        Peter Rounce said that CS with EE students have chosen to do CS with EE so there needs to be a reasonable amount of CS and EE.
 
        Sarah Berke informed the EE students that they could change to straight CS.
 
        13.  Fourth Year Timetable Clashes (M Delacour)
 
        Fourth Years are left with no option but to take the options that fit into there timetable and not the options that they wish to take.
 
        Sarah Berke let Mark know that next year it will not be a problem as the Msci and MSc will be taught the same courses.  Unfortunately there is nothing that can be done this year.
 
        Bernard asked if all the students wanted to do the same options but Mark said they are all different choices.
 
        Sarah Berke asked if someone from the 4th year would meet with her to let her know the issues so that the same problems do not occur next year.
 
        14.  Lateness of Lecture notes (M Delacour)
 
        Mark Delacour said students like to have the notes before the lecture.  Lecturers do not produce them in time.
 
        Robin said he would mention it in Teaching Committee.
 
        15.  Irrelevant postings to Departmental Mailing Lists (M Delacour)
 
        Covered in point 10
 
        16.  Arbitrary nature of programme / non-programme options, and aim to get rid of rule against taking options out of year (A Chung)
 
        Programme Options are Computer Science, Maths, Cognitive Science and Non-programme options are from another department but need to be linked to Computer Science.
 
        If students find courses that are linked to Computer Science they need to check with Robin as to whether or not they can take them.  The presence of a clash does not stop a student from taking it.  Programme Options are too few and Graham Knight is looking into this.  
 
        Andrew expressed an interest in taking 4th year options in the 2nd year.  Robin said that students will not get the credit and when you get to the 3rd or 4th year you will have even fewer options, it wouldn’t work.  If students wish to take options in other years they need to see Robin.
 
        17.  More coursework weightings for programme courses (A Chung)
 
        Graham Roberts said that exams are the best way of judging students.  Robin thought coursework is useful to learn the subject, there are problems with plagiarism.  Andrew thinks that it is not fair to have to pass coursework.  
 
        18.  Is the Professional Issues course worthwhile (A.Chung)
 
        COMP3C16 gives the course accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Engineers.  If you fail the course you will not receive accreditation.
 
        19.  Low quality of undergraduate course (A Chung)
 
        Some of the points that Andrew made were, the course is not as good as it could be, CS at UCL is ranked 15 in The Guardian, the course is not a challenge.
 
        Robin believes we have a good degree.  How challenging the degree is, something that is being looked at.  Not all students share the same view as Andrew.  This will be discussed further in the next meeting.
 
        MSc Issues
 
        The MSc Computer Science reps brought up a few points about the course:
 
        The Programming is very challenging.  Students are spending 95% of the time trying to work it out.
 
        Robin told students student’s to see the Programme Director.
 
        20.  Can we get rid of Log Books? (Martin Sewell)
 
        All PhD students have logbooks; do we have to fill them in?
 
        There is nothing that the department can do, it is a requirement from college.
 
        21.  Desks for PhD students (Martin Sewell)
 
        Sarah pointed out that some PhD students do not mind sharing a desk.  Martin Sewell does not have his own desk but feels that he should.  Sarah assured him that he would have his own desk.
 
        Date of next meeting
 
        To be arranged (February 2003)
 
         
       
 
        
      
 
       
     
 
      
    
 
     
   
 
    
    
    
     
     
      This page was last modified on 13 Dec 2016 and is maintained by 
      Graham Knight 
     
 
    
 
     
      
      Computer Science Department 
 
      University College London 
 
      Gower Street 
 
      London 
 
      WC1E 6BT 
 
     
 
      
        +44 (0)20 7679 7214 
 
     
 
      
         
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
     
      
      	 Disclaimer| 
	 Cookies| 
	 Accessibility| 
	 Privacy| 
	 Advanced Search| 
	 Help 

 
     
 
      
      Copyright © 1999- 2016 UCL 
 
     
 
      
     
 
    
 
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
